Bundle 2503 dotdigital (#475)
magento/merchdocs: src/marketing/price-rules-cart-coupon.md

-  Email coupons to customers
-  Produce printed coupons
-  Create in-store coupons for mobile users

Coupon codes can be sent by email, or included in newsletters, catalogs, and advertisements. The list of coupon codes can be exported and sent to a commercial printer. You can also create in-store coupons with a quick response code that shoppers can scan with their smart phones. The QR code can link to a page on your site with more information about the promotion.

If [dotdigital]({% link marketing/engagement-cloud.md %}) is enabled, you can use the _dotdigital Coupon URL Builder_ to dynamically generate personalized URLs with coupon codes that can be used in your dotdigital email campaigns. You can also resend a previously generated coupon code to the same contact. To learn more, see [Dynamic content: Coupon codes - Magento 2][1] in the dotdigital Help Centre.

## Method 1: Create a Specific Coupon

1. Follow the instructions to create a [cart price rule]({% link marketing/price-rules-cart.md %}).

1. On the **Rule Information** section, set **Coupon** to `Specific Coupon`.

>    -  Enter a **Coupon Code** to be used with the promotion.

Reviewer: is this the next step?  should it be numbered?

Author: Fixed. Thanks!

1. To limit the number of times each customer can use the coupon, enter the number of **Uses per Customer**.

   ![Cart price rule - generate auto-numbered coupons]({% link images/images/price-rule-cart-coupon-auto.png %}){: .zoom}
   _Generate Auto-numbered Coupons_

1. Scroll down and expand ![Expansion selector]({% link images/images/btn-expand.png %}) the **Manage Coupon Codes** section. Then, do the following:

   ![Cart price rule - manage coupon codes]({% link images/images/price-rule-cart-manage-coupon-codes.png %}){: .zoom}
   _Manage Coupon codes_

>    -  In the **Coupons Qty** field, enter the number of coupons that you want to generate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  For **Coupons Qty**, enter the number of coupons that you want to generate.
```

   -  Enter the **Code Length**, not including the prefix, suffix, or separators.

   -  Set the **Code Format** to one of the following:

      -  `Alphanumeric`
      -  `Alphabetical`
      -  `Numeric`

   -  (Optional) Enter a **Code Prefix** to be added to the beginning of the code.
   -  (Optional) Enter a **Code Suffix** to be added to the end of the code.

>    -  (Optional) In the **Dash Every X Characters** field, enter the number of characters between each dash. For example, if the code is twelve characters long, and there is a dash every four characters, it will look like ` xxxx-xxxx-xxxx`. Dashes make codes easier to read and enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  (Optional) For **Dash Every X Characters**, enter the number of characters between each dash. For example, if the code is twelve characters long, and there is a dash every four characters, it will look like ` xxxx-xxxx-xxxx`. Dashes make codes easier to read and enter.
```

1. When complete, click <span class="btn">Generate</span>.

   The list of generated codes appears below.

   ![Cart price rule - generated coupon codes]({% link images/images/price-rule-cart-coupons-generated.png %}){: .zoom}
   _Generated Codes_

## Method 3: Generate a dynamic dotdigital coupon URL

1. Create a [cart price rule]({% link marketing/price-rules-cart.md %}) with the following settings:

   -  Set **Coupon** to `Specific Coupon`.
   -  Select the **Auto Generation** checkbox.

1. Expand the **dotdigital Coupon URL Builder** section.

   ![]({% link images/images/price-rule-cart-coupon-url-builder.png %}){: .zoom}
   _dotdigital Coupon URL Builder_

1. To use a specific code format, set **Code Format** to one of the following:

   -  Alphanumeric
   -  Alphabetical
   -  Numeric

1. Enter the **Code Prefix** and **Code Suffix** if applicable.

> 1. In the **Expires After (days)** field do one of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For **Expires After (days)**, do one of the following:
```

   -  Enter the number of days the coupon code is valid.
   -  Leave the field blank for a dynamic expiration date.

1. Do one of the following:

   -  To always generate a new coupon URL, set **Allow Resend** to `No`.
   -  If you want to allow a previously-generated coupon URL to be resent to the same contact, set **Allow Resend** to `Yes`.

1. To prevent a coupon URL from being used multiple times, set **Cancel Send if Used** to `Yes`.

1. Click the **Coupon Codes URL** field to copy the URL to the clipboard.

   This URL can now be pasted into a dotdigital email campaign to send a personalized and dynamically generated coupon code to a client. The coupons are retrieved and inserted at point of send. To learn more, see [Dynamic content:  Coupon codes - Magento 2][1] in the dotdigital Help Centre.

1. To view the dotdigital coupon codes that you have generated from Magento, do the following:

>    -  Expand the **Manage Coupon Codes** section, and find the coupon in the grid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  Expand the **Manage Coupon Codes** section and find the coupon in the grid.
```

>    -  To filter the list, set the **Generated by dotdigital** filter at the top of the fourth column to `Yes`, and click <span class="btn">Search</span>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  To filter the list, set the **Generated by dotdigital** filter at the top of the fourth column to `Yes` and click <span class="btn">Search</span>.
```

   ![]({% link images/images/price-rule-cart-manage-coupon-codes-grid.png %}){: .zoom}
   _Coupon Generate by dotdigital_

## Test your dotdigital coupon code URLs

Do the following to test the dynamic coupon code URLs that you generate with the _dotdigital Coupon URL Builder_.

### Method 1: Run a test campaign

> 1. Generate the dynamic URL as described above, and insert it into a dotdigital test campaign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate the dynamic URL as described above and insert it into a dotdigital test campaign.
```

1. Run the test campaign and check your email for the code.

1. From your Magento store, make a test purchase and apply the code in the shopping cart.

### Method 2: Add your IP address to the IP restriction whitelist

1. In the Magento configuration, go to **DOTDIGITAL** > **Developer**.

1. Scroll down to the **Dynamic Pages IP Restriction** section.

1. Add your IP address to the end of the list, separated from the previous entry by a comma.

1. Click <span class="btn">Save Config</span>.

> 1. Go to **System** > _Tools_ > **Cache Management**, and clear any invalid cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to **System** > _Tools_ > **Cache Management** and clear any invalid cache.
```

1. Use the _dotdigital Coupon URL Builder_ to generate a URL.

> 1. Click the generated URL to copy it to the clipboard, and paste it into the address bar of a new browser tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the generated URL to copy it to the clipboard and paste it into the address bar of a new browser tab.
```

> 1. At the end of the URL, replace the `@EMAIL@` placeholder with an email address that you use for testing, and press return to display the coupon code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. At the end of the URL, replace the `@EMAIL@` placeholder with an email address that you use for testing and press return to display the coupon code.
```

1. Copy the coupon code that appears in the browser.

> 1. Make a test purchase in your Magento store, and apply the coupon code in the shopping cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make a test purchase in your Magento store and apply the coupon code in the shopping cart.
```
